# Installing a commandline



```sh
# allure
pip3 install allure-pytest -i http://pypi.douban.com/simple/ --trusted-host pypi.douban.com

# pytest
pip3 install pytest -i http://pypi.douban.com/simple/ --trusted-host pypi.douban.com
```

### 配置 allure 环境变量
1. allure是一个命令行工具，可以去 github 下载最新版：https://github.com/allure-framework/allure2/releases
2. 解压到本地
3. 配置环境变量: 将解压的 allure 目录下的 bin 目录的路径添加到环境变量中








## 官网

Several options for Allure installation are currently supported:

To run commandline application, Java Runtime Environment must be installed.



###  Linux
For debian-based repositories a PPA is provided:
```
sudo apt-add-repository ppa:qameta/allure
sudo apt-get update 
sudo apt-get install allure
```

###  Mac OS X
For Mas OS, automated installation is available via Homebrew
```
brew install allure
```

###  Windows
For Windows, Allure is available from the Scoop commandline-installer.

To install Allure, download and install Scoop and then execute in the Powershell:
```
scoop install allure
```

Also Scoop is capable of updating Allure distribution installations. To do so navigate to the Scoop installation directory and execute
```
\bin\checkver.ps1 allure -u
```

This will check for newer versions of Allure, and update the manifest file. Then execute
```
scoop update allure
```

to install a newer version. (documentation)



##  Manual installation
Download the latest version as zip archive from Maven Central.
1. Unpack the archive to allure-commandline directory.
2. Navigate to bin directory.
3. Use allure.bat for Windows or allure for other Unix platforms.
4. Add allure to system PATH.
5. To run commandline application, Java Runtime Environment must be installed.
6. Older releases (⇐ 2.8.0) are available on bintray.


##  Check the installation
Execute allure --version in console to make sure that allure is now available:
```
$ allure --version
2.0.1
```




## ref
* [Pytest 系列（24）- allure 环境准备 ](https://www.cnblogs.com/poloyy/p/13886651.html)
* []()
* []()
* []()
* []()
* []()
* []()
* []()
