# Pytest.Functions

## pytest.approx 断言两个数字（或两组数字）在一定公差范围内相等。
[URL pytest.approx](https://docs.pytest.org/en/stable/reference.html#pytest.approx)


approx 使用尽可能直观的语法执行浮点比较：

```py
>>> from pytest import approx
>>> 0.1 + 0.2 == approx(0.3)
True
```

```py
>>> (0.1 + 0.2, 0.2 + 0.4) == approx((0.3, 0.6))
True
```

```py
>>> {'a': 0.1 + 0.2, 'b': 0.2 + 0.4} == approx({'a': 0.3, 'b': 0.6})
True
```

```py
>>> import numpy as np                                                          
>>> np.array([0.1, 0.2]) + np.array([0.2, 0.4]) == approx(np.array([0.3, 0.6])) 
True
```

```py
>>> import numpy as np                                         
>>> np.array([0.1, 0.2]) + np.array([0.2, 0.1]) == approx(0.3) 
True
```






## pytest.fail
[URL pytest.fail](https://docs.pytest.org/en/stable/reference.html#pytest.fail)


* [Pytest.mark.标记.md#pytest.mark.skip](2.Pytest.mark.标记.md#pytest.mark.skip)
* [Pytest.mark.标记.md#pytest.mark.skipif](2.Pytest.mark.标记.md#pytest.mark.skipif)
* [Pytest.mark.标记.md#pytest.mark.xfail](2.Pytest.mark.标记.md#pytest.mark.xfail将测试函数标记为预期失败)





## pytest.skip
[URL pytest.skip](https://docs.pytest.org/en/stable/reference.html#pytest.skip)

skip(msg[, allow_module_level=False])

使用给定的消息跳过正在执行的测试。

只有在测试（设置、调用或拆卸）期间或在使用allow_module_level标志进行收集期间，才应调用此函数。这个函数也可以在doctest中调用。

allow_module_level 允许在模块级调用此函数，跳过模块的其余部分。默认为False。

如果可能，最好使用pytest.mark.skipf标记来声明在某些条件下跳过测试，例如平台不匹配或依赖项。类似地，使用#doctest:+SKIP指令（请参阅doctest.SKIP）静态跳过doctest。







## pytest.importorskip
[URL pytest.importorskip](https://docs.pytest.org/en/stable/reference.html#pytest.importorskip)

导入并返回请求的模块modname，如果无法导入模块，则跳过当前测试。

importorskip(modname: str, minversion: Optional[str] = None, reason: Optional[str] = None) → Any
* Parameters
    * modname (str) – The name of the module to import.
    * minversion (str) – If given, the imported module’s __version__ attribute must be at least this minimal version, otherwise the test is still skipped.
    * reason (str) – If given, this reason is shown as the message when the module cannot be imported.
* Returns: The imported module. This should be assigned to its canonical name.


```py
docutils = pytest.importorskip("docutils")
```




## pytest.xfail
[URL pytest.xfail](https://docs.pytest.org/en/stable/reference.html#pytest.xfail)

`xfail(reason: str = '') → NoReturn`
Imperatively xfail an executing test or setup function with the given reason.

This function should be called only during testing (setup, call or teardown).

Note
It is better to use the pytest.mark.xfail marker when possible to declare a test to be xfailed under certain conditions like known bugs or missing features.






## pytest.exit
[URL pytest.exit](https://docs.pytest.org/en/stable/reference.html#pytest.exit)

`exit(msg: str, returncode: Optional[int] = None) → NoReturn`
Exit testing process.

Parameters
msg (str) – Message to display upon exit.

returncode (int) – Return code to be used when exiting pytest.






## pytest.main
[URL pytest.main](https://docs.pytest.org/en/stable/reference.html#pytest.main)

`main(args: Optional[Union[List[str], py._path.local.LocalPath]] = None, plugins: Optional[Sequence[Union[str, object]]] = None) → Union[int, _pytest.config.ExitCode]`
Perform an in-process test run.

Parameters
args – List of command line arguments.

plugins – List of plugin objects to be auto-registered during initialization.

Returns
An exit code.






## pytest.param
[URL pytest.param](https://docs.pytest.org/en/stable/reference.html#pytest.param)

`param(*values[, id][, marks])`
Specify a parameter in pytest.mark.parametrize calls or parametrized fixtures.

@pytest.mark.parametrize(
    "test_input,expected",
    [("3+5", 8), pytest.param("6*9", 42, marks=pytest.mark.xfail),],
)
def test_eval(test_input, expected):
    assert eval(test_input) == expected
Parameters
values – Variable args of the values of the parameter set, in order.

marks – A single mark or a list of marks to be applied to this parameter set.

id (str) – The id to attribute to this parameter set.






## pytest.raises
[URL pytest.raises](https://docs.pytest.org/en/stable/reference.html#pytest.raises)

断言代码块/函数调用引发预期的异常，否则引发失败异常。

* `with raises(expected_exception: Union[Type[_E], Tuple[Type[_E], …]], *, match: Optional[Union[str, Pattern[str]]] = '...') → RaisesContext[_E] as excinfo`
* `with raises(expected_exception: Union[Type[_E], Tuple[Type[_E], …]], func: Callable[[…], Any], *args: Any, **kwargs: Any) → _pytest._code.code.ExceptionInfo[_E] as excinfo`
* match – 如果指定，则是包含正则表达式或正则表达式对象的字符串，该字符串将使用re.search根据异常的字符串表示形式进行测试。为了匹配可能包含特殊字符的文本字符串，可以首先使用re.escape对模式进行转义。


（这仅在pytest.raises用作上下文管理器时使用，否则传递给函数。将pytest.raises用作函数时，可以使用：pytest.raises（Exc，func，match=“passed on”）.match（"my pattern"）


使用pytest.raises作为上下文管理器，它将捕获给定类型的异常：

```py
>>> import pytest
>>> with pytest.raises(ZeroDivisionError):
...    1/0
```
如果代码块没有引发预期的异常（上例中的ZeroDivisionError），或者根本没有异常，那么检查将失败。


您还可以使用关键字参数match断言异常与文本或正则表达式匹配：

```py
>>> with pytest.raises(ValueError, match='must be 0 or None'):
...     raise ValueError("value must be 0 or None")

>>> with pytest.raises(ValueError, match=r'must be \d+$'):
...     raise ValueError("value must be 42")
```

上下文管理器生成一个ExceptionInfo对象，可用于检查捕获的异常的详细信息：

```py
>>> with pytest.raises(ValueError) as exc_info:
...     raise ValueError("value must be 42")
>>> assert exc_info.type is ValueError
>>> assert exc_info.value.args[0] == "value must be 42"
```





## pytest.deprecated_call
[URL pytest.deprecated_call](https://docs.pytest.org/en/stable/reference.html#pytest.deprecated_call)

`with deprecated_call(*, match: Optional[Union[str, Pattern[str]]] = '...') → WarningsRecorder`
with deprecated_call(func: Callable[[…], T], *args: Any, **kwargs: Any) → T
Assert that code produces a DeprecationWarning or PendingDeprecationWarning.

This function can be used as a context manager:

>>> import warnings
>>> def api_call_v2():
...     warnings.warn('use v3 of this api', DeprecationWarning)
...     return 200

>>> import pytest
>>> with pytest.deprecated_call():
...    assert api_call_v2() == 200
It can also be used by passing a function and *args and **kwargs, in which case it will ensure calling func(*args, **kwargs) produces one of the warnings types above. The return value is the return value of the function.

In the context manager form you may use the keyword argument match to assert that the warning matches a text or regex.

The context manager produces a list of warnings.WarningMessage objects, one for each warning raised.






## pytest.register_assert_rewrite
[URL pytest.register_assert_rewrite](https://docs.pytest.org/en/stable/reference.html#pytest.register_assert_rewrite)



`register_assert_rewrite(*names: str) → None`
Register one or more module names to be rewritten on import.

This function will make sure that this module or all modules inside the package will get their assert statements rewritten. Thus you should make sure to call this before the module is actually imported, usually in your __init__.py if you are a plugin using a package.

Raises
TypeError – If the given module names are not strings.













## pytest.warns
[URL pytest.warns](https://docs.pytest.org/en/stable/reference.html#pytest.warns)


`with warns(expected_warning: Optional[Union[Type[Warning], Tuple[Type[Warning], …]]], *, match: Optional[Union[str, Pattern[str]]] = None) → WarningsChecker`
`with warns(expected_warning: Optional[Union[Type[Warning], Tuple[Type[Warning], …]]], func: Callable[[…], T], *args: Any, **kwargs: Any) → T`
Assert that code raises a particular class of warning.

Specifically, the parameter expected_warning can be a warning class or sequence of warning classes, and the inside the with block must issue a warning of that class or classes.

This helper produces a list of warnings.WarningMessage objects, one for each warning raised.

This function can be used as a context manager, or any of the other ways pytest.raises() can be used:

>>> import pytest
>>> with pytest.warns(RuntimeWarning):
...    warnings.warn("my warning", RuntimeWarning)
In the context manager form you may use the keyword argument match to assert that the warning matches a text or regex:

>>> with pytest.warns(UserWarning, match='must be 0 or None'):
...     warnings.warn("value must be 0 or None", UserWarning)

>>> with pytest.warns(UserWarning, match=r'must be \d+$'):
...     warnings.warn("value must be 42", UserWarning)

>>> with pytest.warns(UserWarning, match=r'must be \d+$'):
...     warnings.warn("this is not here", UserWarning)
Traceback (most recent call last):
  ...
Failed: DID NOT WARN. No warnings of type ...UserWarning... was emitted...





## pytest.freeze_includes
[URL pytest.freeze_includes](https://docs.pytest.org/en/stable/reference.html#pytest.freeze_includes)


Tutorial: Freezing pytest.

`freeze_includes() → List[str]`
Return a list of module names used by pytest that should be included by cx_freeze.











